---
layout: post
title:  "Reading the curses module from the Python standard library."
date:   2013-12-16 17:10:51
categories: code
---

Ok, in an effort to [do it in public](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2012/05/how-to-stop-sucking-and-be-awesome-instead.html), and trying to follow advice to [read the standard library](http://pyvideo.org/video/879/the-art-of-subclassing) in order to become a better Python developer, here's my stream of consciousness while reading the [curses](https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/master/Lib/curses) module.

OK, I don't actually know what curses is going to do. I expect it to be about fancy terminal apps. What does it say . . .
\_\_init\_\_.py
===========
Does 'from \_curses import *' ? that seems like an odd start, what's that doing, and why? Defines initscr and start\_color which it then goes on to use in wrapper, which the docstring says wraps a func and restores normal terminal operation even if the func errors. Handy. Uses a try finally for this. Seems reasonable.

Hmmm, I notice there is no \_curses module, what's that import do? a C thing maybe? Yeah initscr and start\_color pretty much just call the \_curses function of the same name. I'm guessing it's the underlying C lib. Is there one of those? [Yep.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curses_(programming_library\))

ascii.py
========
Provides some utilities to tell things about chars, isascii, isxdgit, and which ones are control chars etc. (What exactly are control chars? like ^C right? Which I guess according to this module is ETX . . .) ok not much to see here.

has\_key.py
==========
From a comment in \_\_init\_\_.py I think this is an implementation of a function that \_curses has sometimes. It seems to tell us whether curses has 'capability' for this key? I'm not sure what that means, maybe whether this particular curses recognizes it?

panel.py
========
just does 'from \_curses\_panel import *'. ok.

textpad.py
==========
At 188 lines this is the longest file in here. It has some behavior if you run it. I wonder what it does? . . . Wow it's taking a long time to git clone, is this all just text? Hah! that's pretty fun. Curses is totally about fancy console stuff. ok. Well with functions like do\_command and \_insert\_printable\_char textpad seems to be all about implementing that demo. ok, so the most code in here is a demo of how it works? 

In summary
==========
curses is a thin wrapper around the c lib curses with a demo of how to use it in Python. Which is nice, but perhaps not the best module to pick to investigate :-) On the other hand, I wonder how hard it would be to implement snake . . .
